FIFA 
The challenge
Perform an end-to-end analysis putting into practice what you have learned so far. You will apply statistical or machine learning techniques and present your results to the class.

Possible Outcomes
Rank players by market value.
Highlight the top players for their outstanding performances over a discrete season.
Decide when to transfer a player.
Decide the best replacement for a transferred player.
You might suggest your own outcomes. Check with instructional staff before committing to a new option.

Objectives
Ask interesting and thoughtful questions and find the data to answer them.
Focus on improving in areas that are hard for you or learning more about something with which you feel comfortable.
Apply the statistical and machine learning techniques we have learned.
Create useful and clear graphs.
Present your insights in a thoughtful, clear, and accurate way.
Dataset
All the necessary files, as well as the dataset, can be found in the following repository: Mid-bootcamp project - FIFA MoneyBall.

Details about the dataset can be found here as well [https://www.kaggle.com/ekrembayar/fifa-21-complete-player-dataset?select=fifa21_male2.csv]

This data set includes:

EA Sports FIFA 19 Game data:
Player Name
Club of the Player
League
Position
Pace
Shooting
Passing
Dribbling
Defending
Physical
Transfermarkt extra info by player:
Date of Birth
Nationality
Height
Foot
Day Joined the current club
Day of Contract End
Market Value of the Player
Instagram and Facebook data by player:
Number of followers on Instagram
Number of likes on Facebook of the club in which the player has a contract
ESPN FC data from the past 5 years performance of each player
GS: Games Started
SB: Games Substituted
G: Goals Scored
A: Assists
SH: Shots
SG: Shots on Goal
FC: Fouls Committed
FS: Fouls Suffered
YC: Yellow Cards
RC: Red Cards
Some more abbreviations here: https://fifauteam.com/fifa-19-glossary-abbreviations/

Instructions & Scope
You must plan your project. Creating a Kanban or using Trello or a similar app for a digital board is mandatory.
You CAN’T CODE until your project is planned.
Create a *.gitignore* file and include it in your repository.
You should include a linear regression question(s) on the data.
Deliverables
A well-commented Jupyter notebook with your analysis.
The final dataset after all cleaning and transformations.
Repository with your workflow + documentation + code.
Visual documentation of Kanban or Trello board link.
Tips & Tricks
Organize yourself (don’t get lost!). Respect deadlines.
Ask for help but don’t forget that Google is your friend.
Define a simple approach first. You never know how the data can betray you. :wink:
Document your work.
Learn about the problem and what research has been done before you.
Before making a graph, think about what you want to represent.

LOAN ELEGIBILITY
Main practice: Data analysis and ML - Classification.

Here is information and the link for the dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/devzohaib/eligibility-prediction-for-loan

Same rules as for the FIFA project.

Hints - aka we have not learned the points below yet, but we will:

For the EDA: to analyse relationships between a continuous feature and the categorical target variable (Loan_Status), create bar plots where you compare the averages for each category.
Example - ApplicantIncome vs Loan_Status: create a bar plot where you will have two bars: one for Loan_Status = YES, with the average income for people who got the loan; and another bar for Loan_Status = NO, with the average income for people who did not get the loan. (here we might expect to see that  the YES bar would be higher, since we'd expect that people with higher income might have better chances of getting a loan)

For the EDA: to analyse relationships between a categorical feature and the categorical target variable (Loan_Status), create contingency tables https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/contingency-table-in-python/.
The dataset is imbalanced, so make sure you analyse and interpret the confusion matrix. Also, if you have the time, take a look at this https://medium.com/thecyphy/handling-imbalanced-datasets-with-imblearn-library-df5e58b968f4

SHARKS Attack
Main practice: Data cleaning, Data analysis and ML - Classification.

Here is the information and dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/felipeesc/shark-attack-dataset

Same rules as the FIFA project and same hints from the Loan Eligibility project.

This dataset contains a lot of nulls and some data cleaning to be done. The insights from the dataset can be interesting and fun. 

The suggestion is to predict if the shark attack was fatal or not.